All right, so I'm having the first espresso of the day and I'm here
at Becerraca in Brno, where our friend Tommy,
who is a skilled barista and also co-owner of the place, will explain,
prepare, and show you all the espresso drinks on the menu.
So check it out.
We'll break down all espresso drinks into two categories:
Black coffee and milk coffee.
In black coffee, we will talk about single espresso, double espresso,
americano, lungo, and filter coffee.
In milk coffee, we will talk about macchiato, cortado or piccolo,
flat white, cappuccino, and café latte.
The names vary a lot around the world, and recipes are not set in stone.
But this overview should be a good starting point for you.
All right, so today we'll be talking about coffee—most of the coffees
that are made on this machine, the espresso machine.
And we'll start perhaps with the basic but the most important one, and that's espresso.
So, Tommy, are you ready? Let's make espresso.
I'm ready. Let's do it.
**Single Espresso**: A single shot or just an espresso is served in a small cup.
As you can see, there are actually two espresso shots being produced at a time, each from one spout.
The volume is usually around 20 to 30 milliliters or grams,
because we prefer to weigh coffee.
In our case, it's 21 grams.
It's a very intense, concentrated beverage with a rich taste and smooth structure.
Before you drink it, it's good to stir it so all the layers mix before you taste it.
If you want to drink a little more coffee but with the same intensity, just order a double espresso or espresso doppio.
It's the same recipe. The only difference is that the barista
uses a bigger cup, usually the one for cappuccino, to capture
espresso shots from both spouts. The benefit is that the price
is usually better than if you order two single espressos.
**Americano**: Basically a diluted espresso.
For those who prefer less intense coffee, you can expect it to be served in a cappuccino cup.
The barista adds around 100 to 120 milliliters of water and then pulls an espresso shot.
Coffee retains the flavor characteristics of espresso, but the intensity is milder.
**Lungo**: A longer espresso, which you can produce by adjusting the grinder and running a longer shot.
It's usually 30 to 40 grams, or as Tommy does at Beca, by adding extra hot water next to a regular espresso
so that the customer can dilute it to their preferred taste.
**Filter Coffee**: The last black coffee alternative is filter coffee or batch brew.
It doesn't really fit this topic since it doesn't come from an espresso machine, but it's a fine option for somebody
who wants to drink a big cup of black coffee. The flavor is usually more refined, less intense, and develops as the coffee cools.
Now, most orders at coffee shops actually go for milk-based coffees. Let’s dive into those.
**Cappuccino**: Arguably the most popular coffee drink in the world.
It consists of a single shot of espresso and foamed milk. Ratios and cup sizes vary but typically range from 150 to 200 milliliters.
Great latte art reflects barista skill and can brighten your day.
**Espresso Macchiato**: A small espresso drink served in an espresso cup, mixing a single shot with a small amount of foamed milk. Ratio is around 1:1 or 1:2.
**Cortado (or Piccolo)**: Often served in a glass, it mixes a single espresso with foamed milk in a 100-120 milliliter cup.
**Flat White**: A popular drink from Australia and New Zealand. It combines a double espresso with foamed milk in a small cappuccino-sized cup for a stronger flavor.
**Café Latte**: Served in a larger cup (around 300 milliliters), it blends a single espresso with lots of foamed milk. Ratio is about 1:14.
To summarize: Espresso-based drinks range from intense single shots to milk-forward café lattes, with a variety of flavor intensities to suit different preferences.
Thank you for joining us on this espresso journey. Explore more options like Espresso Tonic or Freddo Espresso in our other videos. See you soon!